In this section we'll talk about keywords identifiers punctuation operators and syntax in programming
languages.
Most languages have keywords keywords are part of the vocabulary of a programming language in most languages
the keywords are also reserved.
This means that you the programmer cannot redefine their meaning and you can't use them in a way in
which they were not intended.
C++ has lots of keywords in a browser I've opened up a web page for CGP reference dot com that lists
the C++ keywords without a frame of reference.
It's difficult to know that this is a lot of keywords.
There are around 90 keywords in C++
Java has around 50
C has 32 and Python has 33.
90 is a lot of keywords now.
In general the more keywords that a language has the more complex the programming language grammar.
However there are many keywords in C++ that are rarely used.
I've been using C++ for a very long time and there are some keywords in this list that I've never used.
There's no need to sit down and memorize all these keywords will use the keywords as we need them and
you'll learn them along the way.
Notice that some of the keywords in this list we've already used for example we've used it and we've
used return years and right here and Heeres return right here.
We use that in our first program.
Also notice that LB include main favorite number standard and line C in and C out are not in this list.
That's because they're not keywords.
We'll talk about them next.
What's important to remember here is that C++ has a set of keywords that it's defined in the language
and these words are reserved.
Now let's go to code light and see the reserve words in our first program.
So going back and code later I'm looking at the same program that we did in the previous section.
The one with the favorite number you can see that I mentioned that main and LB include in favorite number
and so forth were not keywords.
Same with standard out c out C in and so forth than in line all of these.
These are not keywords.
These are called identifiers and there's an important distinction between identifiers and keywords and
identifier is something that the programmer names these names have been created by programmers to create
something that represents something meaningful to them.
There are rules about how to name identifiers and will go into all those in the later section.
C++ also has operators it's got a lot of operators.
It's got the operators that you used to.
In addition multiplication subtraction division and so forth.
But in this case we're using some nonstandard operators for example this guy right here that little
Chevron is this dream insertion operator.
We're going to insert whatever's on the right hand side of it into that stream in this case it's an
output stream that gets displayed to the console.
Same thing with the string extraction operator.
This one takes something from the console and stores it into a variable.
In this case favorite number there is also that double colon right here.
That's the scope resolution operator will talk about all of these operators as we go on to Section 9
in the course.
C++ also has punctuation things like semi-colons at the end of statements Curley's open and close quotes
parentheses it's got all kinds of punctuation when you put all of these elements together in a program
you end up with something called syntax syntax is the syntax of the programming language the structure
and the meaning of what you want the compiler to understand.
The compiler is taking your code and translating it to machine code and it's translated here based on
what you told it you wanted to be done.
It's not going to guess.
This may sound a little intimidating at this point but it comes pretty quickly with a little bit of
practice.
Well that completes this video in the next video.
We'll talk about the C++ preprocessor and we'll learn more about that preprocessor directive pounde
include.